IoT/ReadEdgentEvents/python/StreamsPythonAndEdgent/README.md, before:

This project contains a Streams application written in Python that processes events sent from an [Edgent](https://edgent.apache.org) application. It shows how to send commands to the Edgent application.

First, you need an Edgent application sending data to the Watson IoT platform.
The easiest way to get started is to [deploy the Streams IoT starter kit](https://github.com/IBMStreams/streamsx.iot.starterkit). Click the **Deploy to Bluemix** button to set up all the needed services.

Download credential files from the Starter kit home page:

Click **View All Credentials**:

- Download the `device.cfg` file:  
  - Under **Edgent Credentials**, select Download Device.cfg. Save this file locally.
- Download the Streaming Analytics service credentials:
  - In the **Streams credentials** tab, click "Download credentials as JSON" and save the credentials.cfg file.

Once that is done, you are ready to run the applications.



1. Run the IoT sensors sample from Edgent:

  - Download Edgent, choose a binary release
  - Unpack Edgent, run the IoT sensors application:
    ```
    cd <edgent>/java8/scripts/connectors/iotp
     ./runiotpsensors.sh device.cfg
     ```

2. Submit the `IotPlatformBluemix` application to your Streams instance. Click "Tools" on the starter kit home page and click *Submit IoTPlatform Job* if it is not running.


3. Run the Streams application
You need version 1.7 or greater of the streamsx package:
`pip install streamsx`


### Submit to a local instance of Streams:
- [Follow these steps](http://ibmstreams.github.io/streamsx.documentation/docs/python/1.6/python-appapi-devguide-3/#31-setting-up-your-environment)  under "Setting up your environment"
- Set `STREAMS_DOMAIN_ID`, `STREAMS_INSTALL` and `STREAMS_INSTANCE_ID` environment variables
- Run the application:
`python3 edgentiot.py local [username] [password]`

### Submit to the Streaming Analytics service on Bluemix
- [Follow these steps](http://ibmstreams.github.io/streamsx.documentation/docs/python/1.6/python-appapi-devguide-2a/#21-setting-up-your-python-environment) under "Setting up your environment"
- Edit line 21 of  `read_from_edgent.py` with the name of your service. Check the `name`  attribute in your `credentials.cfg` file for this value.
- Edit line 19 with the path of the `credentials.cfg` file you downloaded earlier.  The path is relative to the current working directory.

Run the application:
`python3 edgentiot.py bluemix`

Commit message:

add notebook version; update instructions to use with starter kit

IoT/ReadEdgentEvents/python/StreamsPythonAndEdgent/README.md, after:

This project contains a Streams application written in Python that processes events sent from an [Edgent](https://edgent.apache.org) application. It also shows how to send commands to the Edgent application.
## Prerequisites
See [the prerequisites here](https://github.com/IBMStreams/samples/tree/master/IoT/ReadEdgentEvents)
Once you have all the prerequisites, you are ready to run the Streams application.


## Run the Streams application
You need version 1.7 or greater of the streamsx package:
`pip install streamsx`


### Submit to a local instance of Streams:
- [Follow these steps](http://ibmstreams.github.io/streamsx.documentation/docs/python/1.6/python-appapi-devguide-3/#31-setting-up-your-environment)  under "Setting up your environment"
- Set `STREAMS_DOMAIN_ID`, `STREAMS_INSTALL` and `STREAMS_INSTANCE_ID` environment variables
- Run the application:
`python3 edgentiot.py local [username] [password]`

### Submit to the Streaming Analytics service on Bluemix
- [Follow these steps](http://ibmstreams.github.io/streamsx.documentation/docs/python/1.6/python-appapi-devguide-2a/#21-setting-up-your-python-environment) under "Setting up your environment"
- Edit line 21 of  `read_from_edgent.py` with the name of your service. Check the `name`  attribute in your `credentials.cfg` file for this value.
- Edit line 19 with the path of the Streaming Analytics credentials file you downloaded earlier.  The path is relative to the current working directory.

Run the application:
`python3 edgentiot.py bluemix`

Once it is running, check the output of your Edgent application. You should see messages like this:

```
Message to Edgent from Streams:
Alert code: 249
{"name":"B","reading":{"N":50,"MIN":-2.762152936700155,"MAX":5.7895310031906675,"MEAN":2.239131357345944,"STDDEV":2.199931362960884}}
```
