To learn more about this application, see [this article](https://developer.ibm.com/streamsdev/docs/c-primitive-operator-sliding-window/) on [StreamsDev](https://developer.ibm.com/streamsdev/).

## SGFilter operator

* Non-generic C++ primitive operator which digitally filters an input time series represented as tuple values.  The filter is applied on the first tuple attribute (expected type float64.)
* The implementation demonstrates the following techniques:
    * The operator code generator template (*.cgt) uses the pointer to implementation (pimpl) idiom to separate it from the implementation. The cgt files are reduced to a minimal skeleton, while the actual implementation resides entirely in a separate class.  The implementation class is syntactically complete (no operator generation prologue and epilogue pragmas), so you can use standard C/C++ tools to develop the entire operator logic.
    * The implementation is a C++ class template, with parameters for the wrapping operator instance, the input and the output tuple types.  The C++ compiler instantiates the template using the actual operator and tuple types generated by the Streams compiler.
    * The implementation uses a sliding window for storing the time series values on which the filter is applied.  The window uses count-based trigger and tuple eviction policies.
    * Implementation is header-only. You don't need to build a separate library to hold the operator logic.

## Use
Build standalone application:

`make`

Run (default filter length value is 11):

`./output/bin/standalone [length={5 | 7 | 9 | 11}]`

You can examine the filter input `./data/input.txt` and output `./data/smoothed.txt`.

Compare output with expected data (for filter length=11):

`diff ./data/smoothed-11.exp ./data/smoothed.txt`

Generate trace statements at the TRACE level:

`./output/bin/standalone --trace-level=5`

Clean:

`make clean`

You can also build a distributed application with the following command:

`make distributed`

then submit your job to a running Streams instance.
